In the FinTech space
particularly globally,
there's been a lot of discussion
of regulatory sandboxes.
So what exactly is
a regulatory sandbox?
Well, what is the sandbox?
Let's start there.
A sandbox for those
of you who don't
know is a small space that has
a bunch of sand in it where
kids go to play during
lunch or recess.
The idea is that they use
their imagination and
then create sand castles,
and tunnels, and enjoy
playing with their peers.
The term regulatory
sandbox actually
comes from the sandbox
that kids play in.
The idea behind
a regulatory sandbox is in
this imaginative
environment of play.
Innovators have the freedom to
explore and think
about new solutions,
and new products to
existing problems that exist
in markets without being
overly burden by
regulatory frameworks that
are more appropriate
for mature industries.
One idea of how to think
about the regulation of
financial technology going
forward and one idea that's
been proposed roughly
between the Euro areas,
the United States, and
Hong Kong is to come
together to form
a global financial technology
sandbox to provide
a reprieve for new and
emerging industries and new,
and emerging firms
who seek to innovate
and provide financial services to
consumers in ways that
they haven't before,
and to seek to provide
financial services
to consumers who
have traditionally been left
out of the financial sector.
I thought it would
be useful to think
about how a few
countries outside of
the United States
have thought about
the approach to
regulation of FinTech.
In Australia, FinTechs are
regulated by the Australian ASIC,
the Australian Securities
and Investment Commission.
The idea behind ASIC is that
it is focused on helping
FinTech companies
think through which
licenses and regulations
apply to them,
and making sure that
both consumers and
investors are protected when
dealing with these new firms.
ASIC created a regulatory
sandbox for FinTechs.
The idea behind the sandbox
was that for up to 12 months,
new financial firms could operate
and test products that
they hope to bring
to a broader market
without needing
a credit license from
the Australian
financial authorities.
The UK is attempting to create
a global FinTech sandbox
with the help of helping
financial technology
companies who
have cross-border
ambitions grow in
a way that is safe for
consumers but also
facilitates the emergence
of these new industries.
The UK's had
significant success with
respect to its
regulatory sandbox.
The idea behind
each sandbox is that it
partners with firms that
meet a set of requirements,
and allows those
particular institutions
to test products without
complying with the full set
of regulations that are
typically required of
financial services providers.
In order to conduct these tests,
these new firms work
very closely with
UK regulators in order to
make sure consumers are
sufficiently protected.
Additionally, these firms
are given a reprieve
from regulatory enforcement
actions against
them for not being
able to comply with
different requirements that are
required of more mature firms.
After the testing period has
expired for the sandbox,
financial technology
companies have
the opportunity to think
about whether they want to
continue to provide
this service or modify
it as the company
becomes more mature.
Singapore has also adopted
a regulatory sandbox to enable
financial innovators and
existing financial
technology players to use
this opportunity
to experiment with
innovative financial
products or services.
The idea behind
the regulatory sandbox is
to under the guidance of
regulatory supervision,
test new financial
technology products,
and determine whether
they're well suited,
and likely to solve
an existing problem that
exists in the
financial marketplace.
China is an example of
a country that has taken
a relatively loose approach to
regulation over
financial technology.
Their attitude is to think
of the whole country as
a regulatory sandbox where
new technologies can be tested,
and new ideas can be
implemented without
concern over a significant
litigation threat,
or concerned that you would run
awry of financial regulators.
However, some regulation has
indeed been implemented.
The Ministry of Industry
and Information Technology
has begun to produce ratings
for blockchain products and
Beijing has banned
initial coin offerings,
and blocked websites that
offer cryptocurrency
trading services.
This interventions
have been mostly with
respect to blockchain
but in general,
China has tried to
really encourage
the growth of innovation
in financial technology,
and tried to encourage
entrepreneurs who are
developing in this space to
locate it in China where
they'll have access to
significant testing for
new financial technologies,
and also be able to
think about how best to
scale up the industries
that they're developing.
The experience of
financial technology regulation
both here in the US and abroad,
provides some very
useful takeaways
for thinking about
the development of
a regulatory framework
that's cogent and
well suited to protect consumers.
Here in the US, some of
the struggles we've
had with respect to
the OCC FinTech charter
as well as in
the pre-crisis period
with respect to
financial regulation
more generally,
illustrate that clearly defining
internal regulatory
authority is are
truly necessary step for
a coherent financial
technology regulation.
This could mean
practically deciding
which regulatory body is
best suited to be in charge
of financial
technology regulation
broadly or it could mean
embracing the fact that
different kinds of
financial technology providers
operate in different spaces
and are differently mature,
and so the regulatory
framework has to be
heterogeneous to adjust for
these varied properties.
The experience of
regulatory sandboxes
essentially across the globe,
particularly in
the United Kingdom,
have been found to
increase the value and
the capabilities of
participating firms,
providing the opportunity for
these firms to
develop and innovate,
and play in
this sandbox framework
while also protecting
and safeguarding
consumers against
risks that emerged
from nascent industry players.
The experience of China
shows both the benefits and
the pitfalls of having
a loose approach
to financial
technology regulation.
The absence of regulation
has certainly sparked
a boom in existing
financial technology and
encourage innovators
to relocate or to do
business significantly in
China where essentially,
the whole country
many think of as
a regulatory sandbox
with respect to
news FinTechs but
the lack of oversight in
these markets also give rise to
scams and high risk
financial models,
and make it difficult for
regulators to have
a framework by which to
intervene in these new industries
if they've relinquished
regulatory authority
at the get-go in
order to encourage them to
develop in the country.
For all the experience of
financial technology
regulation and
the experience of financial
regulation more broadly,
suggests that
the best case scenario
for regulators going
forward would be
the true development of
a global framework for
regulation in the space.
The country's
specific requirements
for different financial
services providers
are complicated given that
financial markets are
incredibly global,
and so having
different requirements
in different countries
in which you operate is
burdensome from
their perspective of
industry but also creates
tremendous incentives for
gaming requirements in order
to pick the country's or
the regulatory authorities
that are going to be most
friendly to your
risk-taking activities.
One bright note for the future of
financial technology regulation
is the suggestion that
new global regulatory sandboxes
be considered to facilitate
both singular framework for
the regulatory compliance
for these nascent firms,
but also to facilitate
cross-border growth of
these new industries that have
significant potential to
help best serve consumers.